catching insects one by one takes a lot
of time and a lot of energy and very few
creatures that feed that way can get
enough to build and sustain big bodies
but some insect eaters early in their
history about 40 million years ago
solved that problem by broadening their
diet and one of their descendants lives
right here in my garden in London and I
can tempt it out with a wide variety of
food including for example minced meat
the hedgehog is still very much a
creature of the night but it's too big
to hide in the leaf litter that makes it
vulnerable to attack from animals like
foxes to make up for this its hairs have
become a cloak of prickles and it thinks
it's in real danger it's got a special
drink
the hedgehog will stay an impregnable
spiny ball like this until it decides
that danger has passed
but one thing is guaranteed to make a
male Hedgehog drop his guard the promise
of an amorous liaison if you're outside
on a spring evening you may be lucky
enough to witness in strong beside
[Music]
you might think that having a coat of
spines on your back would be something
of a handicap when it comes to the
intimacies of courtship and indeed
classical naturalists thought that
hedgehogs actually mated belly-to-belly
the male noses the female spines which
seems to excite her although as far as
he's concerned it does look rather
painful whether the female statins have
prickles to help the male is unclear but
it does seem that the old joke that asks
how do hedgehogs mate was right all
along the answer is of course with great
care
[Music]
[Applause]
you